# Course Description

It is almost impossible to think about creating any sort of modern web site or application without the use of databases and at least a cursory knowledge of how they work. Almost everything online uses a database at some level whether it is an ultra-complex system such as Facebook or Amazon.com, a prepackaged tool such as Drupal, WordPress, Wix, or a relatively simple site which requires a logon to gain access to some content. This course is designed to provide a straightforward but comprehensive overview of what these systems are, how they work, and how they can be incorporated into your projects. No pre-existing database knowledge is needed for the course.  Since it is almost impossible to use databases with the web without using some programming we will also look at a programming language in its most basic terms. However, no prior knowledge of any programming is needed and lack of familiarity should not be a deterrent for taking the course. Along the way we will also try to instill some ancillary topics and best practices which will help you in your web or programming career.

Many courses on programming concepts start with a theory and then try to apply that theory to a project. Others simply have to-do steps and leave it to the student to connect the dots as to the larger applicability. In this course, the process will try to go full circle in that we'll do practice-theory-practice. In day to day terms, this means that we'll have an activity to introduce the concept, then discuss the theory about what we just did, then apply that theory to a project.
