# Type Of Assignments

There are four types of assignments that make up this class:

1\.     “Button pushing” assignments and exercises – Button pushing projects are work tasks where you have working code that can be run in a browser or other device. The phrase comes from the typing needed to create a deliverable product and not just that you understand something mentally or “in the abstract”. You will receive these materials every Monday at 12:01am. They will describe the projects for the week, have some background reading, have a step by step process to walk you through a practice run then have outline what is expected on your web site project. These assignments are turned in on the productions server. Websites are supposed to be viewed online. One of the first assignments you have in this class is to set up your working environment so that you can publish pages and work easily. Your work is qualified as turned in if the work is here and viewable.&#x20;

2\.     Journals – It’s important that not only you push the right buttons to get the result, it is important that you can articulate what you did and why. For each button pushing exercise, you will need to do a journal entry documenting the process you went through, anything you learned along the way and any difficulties you had. Just to be clear, there are no point deductions for having problems with the exercise. This can be complicated stuff and difficulties are totally expected. What’s important is that you can think through what happened and what you need to remember for next time. There will be a couple examples in the blog sections on which to base your responses. Journal entries are due by Sunday evening at 11:59pm.

3\.     Tests and Quizzes – There aren’t many of them but there are a few. Sometimes this will be a quiz in Blackboard. Other times it will be another website where you might have to copy and paste something into Blackboard after completing the activity.

4\.     Overall participation and performance – This includes your activities and participation in Blackboard but also will be reflected in the level of quality in your “button pushing” exercises. Did you shoot to do the minimum and barely got it working or did you try something more complicated? Did you put in the extra effort to make a working and well-designed project or did you throw up some code and hope for the best? Realize that in this industry your project history can help you get a job or at least help you develop a portfolio. Will the work in this class help you achieve your goals or be something you never want anyone to see?
